Functional Requirements Document.md, before:

<img src="https://r2cdn.perplexity.ai/pplx-full-logo-primary-dark%402x.png" class="logo" width="120"/>

# Functional Requirements Document for AI Literacy App

## Executive Summary

This comprehensive Functional Requirements Document outlines the development of a **habit-forming AI literacy application** for children aged 3-14 in developing regions, with a specific proof-of-concept targeting India/CBSE curriculum standards. The application leverages local Gemma AI to create personalized, engaging, and culturally relevant learning experiences through an offline-first architecture that ensures accessibility in regions with limited connectivity.[^1]

## Project Overview

### 1.1 Project Vision

To create a **highly engaging, offline-first literacy application** that functions as a comprehensive **"play-and-learn" ecosystem**, leveraging local Gemma AI to deliver continuous, personalized, and deeply motivating learning journeys that encourage daily use and foster genuine love for reading.[^1]

### 1.2 Target Demographics

- **Primary Users**: Children aged 3-14 (Pre-Primary to Grade 8)
- **Geographic Focus**: Developing regions (POC: India/CBSE)
- **Secondary Users**: Parents, teachers, and educational administrators
- **Curriculum Alignment**: CBSE educational standards with multi-grade support[^2][^3]


## Core System Architecture

### 2.1 Offline-First Infrastructure

The system implements a robust offline-first architecture ensuring **100% core functionality without internet connectivity**.[^4][^5] This approach addresses the critical challenge of limited connectivity in developing regions while maintaining high-performance learning experiences.

**Technical Implementation**:

- **Local Data Storage**: SQLite database for persistent data storage
- **AI Processing**: Local Gemma AI integration for content generation
- **Synchronization**: Intelligent sync when connectivity available
- **Raspberry Pi Server**: Classroom-based local server for collaborative features[^6][^7]


### 2.2 AI-Powered Personalization Engine

The application integrates **local Gemma AI** to power deep personalization that fuels engagement through:[^1][^8][^9]

- **Dynamic Challenge Generation**: AI creates personalized challenges based on identified strengths and weaknesses
- **Adaptive Content Delivery**: Real-time adjustment of difficulty and pacing
- **Narrative Personalization**: Integration of child's name, preferences, and cultural context into generated stories
- **Predictive Learning Analytics**: AI-driven insights for optimal learning path recommendations


## Detailed Functional Requirements

### 3.1 Core Gamification and Engagement System

| Requirement ID | Description | Priority | Acceptance Criteria |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| FR-001 | **Core Gameplay Loop Implementation** | High | System shall implement 30-second action-reward cycles: complete task → earn currency → unlock content → receive visual/audio feedback[^1][^10] |
| FR-002 | **Virtual Currency Economy** | High | System shall manage "Knowledge Gems," "Word Coins," or "Imagination Sparks" tied directly to learning achievements with balanced earning/spending mechanics[^1] |
| FR-003 | **SAP Framework Integration** | High | System shall implement Status (badges, certificates), Access (unlocked content, worlds), and Power (special abilities, tools) reward systems[^1] |
| FR-004 | **Narrative World-Building** | Medium | System shall create emotional investment through compelling storylines where child feels like hero of their learning journey[^1] |
| FR-005 | **Appointment Mechanics** | Medium | System shall implement daily return incentives including streaks, daily quests, login bonuses, and timed unlocks[^1] |

### 3.2 AI-Enhanced Learning Features

| Requirement ID | Description | Priority | Acceptance Criteria |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| FR-006 | **Gemma AI Character Integration** | High | AI shall be personified as beloved companion character (Oracle of Knowledge, Story Spinner, or Robot Sidekick) providing personalized interactions[^1] |
| FR-007 | **AI-Generated Story Creation** | High | System shall generate personalized storybooks using earned "Story Seeds" planted in virtual garden, incorporating child's preferences and cultural context[^1] |
| FR-008 | **Adaptive Learning Pathways** | High | AI shall continuously adjust content difficulty, pacing, and learning paths based on real-time performance analysis[^8][^11] |
| FR-009 | **Cultural Customization Engine** | Medium | System shall incorporate local festivals, folklore, animals, and culturally relevant themes in content generation[^1][^3] |
| FR-010 | **Predictive Intervention System** | Medium | AI shall identify at-risk learning patterns and proactively suggest interventions or additional support[^12][^9] |

### 3.3 Multi-Grade Curriculum Support

| Requirement ID | Description | Priority | Acceptance Criteria |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| FR-011 | **CBSE Standards Alignment** | High | System shall align with CBSE learning outcomes, cognitive levels, and curriculum frameworks for Pre-Primary through Grade 8[^2][^13] |
| FR-012 | **Multi-Grade Classroom Support** | High | System shall support simultaneous use by students across different grade levels with individualized content delivery[^14] |
| FR-013 | **Foundational Literacy Focus** | High | System shall prioritize foundational literacy and numeracy as mandated by NEP 2020 for ages 3-8[^15] |
| FR-014 | **Progressive Skill Development** | Medium | System shall track and develop 21st-century skills including collaboration, communication, creativity, and critical thinking[^2][^13] |
| FR-015 | **Competency-Based Assessment** | Medium | System shall implement competency-based evaluation aligned with CBSE learning standards framework[^13] |

### 3.4 Collaborative Learning and Social Features

| Requirement ID | Description | Priority | Acceptance Criteria |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| FR-016 | **Class-Based Collaborative Goals** | High | Entire classes shall work toward collective objectives like building virtual library or completing Reading Quests on local server[^1][^16] |
| FR-017 | **Peer Tutoring System** | Medium | Advanced students shall create and share AI-vetted quizzes and learning materials for peers[^1] |
| FR-018 | **Family Engagement Platform** | High | System shall enable family members to participate in learning sessions and earn coaching badges[^1][^17] |
| FR-019 | **Offline Collaborative Infrastructure** | High | Raspberry Pi classroom server shall enable collaborative features without internet dependency[^6][^7][^18] |
| FR-020 | **Cultural Community Building** | Medium | System shall foster positive social interaction through culturally appropriate collaborative activities[^1] |

### 3.5 Content Safety and Moderation

| Requirement ID | Description | Priority | Acceptance Criteria |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| FR-021 | **AI Content Safety Filter** | Critical | All AI-generated content must pass automated safety filters before delivery to children[^19][^20][^21] |
| FR-022 | **Age-Appropriate Content Validation** | Critical | System shall ensure all content meets age-appropriateness standards for target demographics[^19] |
| FR-023 | **Cultural Sensitivity Screening** | High | Content generation shall incorporate cultural sensitivity filters for diverse Indian regional contexts[^1] |
| FR-024 | **Real-Time Content Monitoring** | High | System shall continuously monitor and analyze content for inappropriate material using AI moderation[^20][^21] |
| FR-025 | **Parental Control Interface** | Medium | Parents shall access content oversight tools and safety reporting mechanisms[^19] |

### 3.6 Teacher and Parent Dashboard Systems

| Requirement ID | Description | Priority | Acceptance Criteria |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| FR-026 | **Comprehensive Analytics Dashboard** | High | Teachers shall access individual and class-wide performance metrics, curriculum alignment reports, and progress tracking[^22][^12] |
| FR-027 | **Gamified Educator Features** | Medium | Teachers shall earn coaching badges and unlock classroom resources through student achievements[^1] |
| FR-028 | **Parent Progress Journey** | High | Parents shall view child's learning journey with visual progress indicators showing progression through themed worlds (e.g., "Vowel Valley to Forest of Sentences")[^1] |
| FR-029 | **Real-Time Intervention Alerts** | High | System shall provide immediate notifications when students require additional support or intervention[^12][^9] |
| FR-030 | **Collaborative Teacher Network** | Medium | Platform shall enable teachers to share resources, strategies, and custom content[^22] |

### 3.7 Long-Term Progression and Retention Systems

| Requirement ID | Description | Priority | Acceptance Criteria |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| FR-031 | **Multi-Year Evolution Framework** | High | Learning environment shall evolve as children progress: simple garden at age 6 → complex ecosystem management at age 12[^1] |
| FR-032 | **Mastery and New Game+ Systems** | Medium | Completed grade levels shall unlock advanced challenges and teaching modes for mastered topics[^1] |
| FR-033 | **Elder Game Features** | Low | Advanced students shall access virtual teaching roles to reinforce learning through peer instruction[^1] |
| FR-034 | **Habit Formation Mechanics** | High | System shall implement psychological principles for habit formation including variable rewards, progress streaks, and appointment mechanics[^23][^17][^24] |
| FR-035 | **Burnout Prevention System** | Medium | System shall vary activity types and implement session pacing to prevent learning fatigue[^1] |

### 3.8 Technical Infrastructure Requirements

| Requirement ID | Description | Priority | Acceptance Criteria |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| FR-036 | **Local AI Processing Optimization** | High | Gemma AI integration shall complete content generation within 5 seconds for simple requests on minimum hardware specifications[^1] |
| FR-037 | **Cross-Platform Compatibility** | High | Primary Android platform with secondary iOS support, optimized for devices common in developing regions[^1] |
| FR-038 | **Raspberry Pi Server Integration** | High | Seamless integration with classroom-based Raspberry Pi servers for collaborative features and content management[^6][^7][^25] |
| FR-039 | **Data Synchronization Protocol** | High | Intelligent sync of progress, collaborative features, and content updates when connectivity becomes available[^4][^26] |
| FR-040 | **Performance Optimization** | High | Core interactions must complete within 2 seconds; system must function on minimum 2GB RAM devices[^1] |

### 3.9 Assessment and Progress Tracking

| Requirement ID | Description | Priority | Acceptance Criteria |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| FR-041 | **Formative Assessment Integration** | High | Continuous evaluation woven naturally throughout learning process rather than separate testing[^22][^13] |
| FR-042 | **Adaptive Difficulty Scaling** | High | Real-time adjustment of challenge difficulty based on performance to maintain optimal learning zone[^8][^9] |
| FR-043 | **Learning Analytics Engine** | High | Comprehensive tracking of learning patterns, strengths, weaknesses, and progress velocity[^12][^9] |
| FR-044 | **Competency Mapping System** | Medium | Alignment of student progress with CBSE learning standards and competency frameworks[^2][^13] |
| FR-045 | **Portfolio and Achievement System** | Medium | Digital portfolio creation showcasing learning journey, achievements, and created content[^22] |

## Quality Assurance and Compliance

### 4.1 Educational Standards Compliance

- **CBSE Curriculum Alignment**: Full compliance with CBSE secondary school curriculum frameworks[^2]
- **NEP 2020 Integration**: Adherence to National Education Policy 2020 guidelines for foundational literacy[^15]
- **Learning Outcomes Mapping**: Precise alignment with NCERT learning outcomes and indicators[^13]


### 4.2 Child Safety and Privacy

- **Data Protection**: Compliance with child privacy regulations and secure data handling[^19]
- **Content Moderation**: Multi-layered AI-powered content safety systems[^20][^21]
- **Age-Appropriate Design**: Interface and content suitable for 3-14 age range with developmental considerations[^19]


### 4.3 Cultural and Regional Adaptation

- **Multilingual Support**: Integration with CBSE's bilingual instruction approach (Hindi/English)[^3]
- **Cultural Sensitivity**: Incorporation of local festivals, folklore, and regional themes[^1]
- **Community Values**: Alignment with communal classroom settings and collaborative learning preferences[^1]


## Technical Constraints and Dependencies

### 4.4 Hardware Requirements

- **Minimum Specifications**: 2GB RAM, ARM processor compatibility for Gemma AI
- **Optimal Performance**: Support for older devices common in developing regions
- **Server Infrastructure**: Raspberry Pi 4-based classroom servers with UPS support[^6][^18]


### 4.5 Network and Connectivity

- **Offline-First Design**: 100% core functionality without internet connectivity[^4][^5]
- **Intelligent Synchronization**: Opportunistic sync when connectivity available
- **Bandwidth Optimization**: Minimal data usage for updates and collaborative features

This comprehensive Functional Requirements Document provides a detailed blueprint for developing an AI literacy application that addresses the unique needs of children in developing regions while leveraging cutting-edge AI technology to create engaging, personalized, and culturally appropriate learning experiences. The requirements ensure the application will be technically feasible, educationally effective, and socially responsible while maintaining the highest standards of child safety and educational quality.

<div style="text-align: center">⁂</div>

[^1]: literacy-prompt.txt

[^2]: https://cbseacademic.nic.in/web_material/CurriculumMain25/Sec/Curriculum_Sec_2024-25.pdf

[^3]: https://earthloreacademy.com/understanding-the-cbse-curriculum-a-comprehensive-overview/

[^4]: https://developer.android.com/topic/architecture/data-layer/offline-first

[^5]: https://www.couchbase.com/blog/offline-first-more-reliable-mobile-apps/

[^6]: https://www.raspberrypi.org/app/uploads/2018/08/Raspberry-Pi-Computers-in-Schools-2018.pdf

[^7]: https://opensource.com/article/18/3/computer-lab-school-raspberry-pi

[^8]: https://elearningindustry.com/ai-in-education-personalized-learning-platforms

[^9]: https://claned.com/the-role-of-ai-in-personalized-learning/

[^10]: https://riseapps.co/gamification-in-learning-apps/

[^11]: https://elearning.adobe.com/2024/11/create-a-next-level-education-app-with-ai-driven-personalization/

[^12]: https://infostride.com/create-an-educational-app/

[^13]: https://cbseacademic.nic.in/cbe/documents/Learning_Standards_English.pdf

[^14]: https://www.edusys.co/blog/what-are-multi-grad-classroom-advantages-disadvantages

[^15]: https://globalindianschool.org/sg/blog-detail/exploring-cbses-education-policy-and-latest-curriculum-framework/

[^16]: https://isit.arts.ubc.ca/news/strategies-for-collaborative-learning/

[^17]: https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC11896562/

[^18]: https://community.nethserver.org/t/raspberry-pi-education-server/18646

[^19]: https://thehyperstack.com/blog/utilizing-ai-in-education-to-prevent-child-abuse-safeguarding-students-in-the-digital-era/

[^20]: https://www.forbes.com/sites/neilsahota/2024/07/20/ai-shields-kids-by-revolutionizing-child-safety-and-online-protection/

[^21]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/content-safety/overview

[^22]: https://www.idreameducation.org/blog/learning-apps-for-schools-features/

[^23]: https://www.trendhunter.com/amp/trends/habitforming-apps

[^24]: https://www.mdpi.com/2078-2489/16/7/606

[^25]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EFDmZX08MXc

[^26]: https://www.mendix.com/evaluation-guide/app-lifecycle/develop/ux-multi-channel-apps/offline-first-apps/

[^27]: https://spinify.com/blog/how-ai-can-tailor-gamification-to-individual-learning-styles/

[^28]: https://pure.royalholloway.ac.uk/files/59911145/1570995191_final.pdf

[^29]: https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/02568543.2024.2421974

[^30]: https://taylorinstitute.ucalgary.ca/resources/collaborative-activities-for-online-learning

[^31]: https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC9252556/

[^32]: https://www.cbse.gov.in/cbsenew/documents/Handbook for Teachers.pdf

[^33]: https://think-it.io/insights/offline-apps

[^34]: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2666920X21000266

[^35]: https://edzym.com/blog/what-is-the-cbse-curriculum/

[^36]: https://www.debutinfotech.com/blog/a-guide-to-offline-app-architecture

[^37]: https://www.disco.co/blog/ai-tools-for-gamified-learning-2025

[^38]: https://cbseacademic.nic.in/sqaa/doc/handbook.pdf

[^39]: https://redstaglabs.com/blogs/an-easy-guide-to-building-offline-first-mobile-apps/

[^40]: https://the-learning-agency.com/the-cutting-ed/article/gamified-ai-tools-for-literacy-development/

[^41]: https://cbseit.in/cbse/2022/ET/assets1/pdf/NCF_SE.pdf

[^42]: https://www.classin.com/online-merge-offline-learning-strategies/

[^43]: https://www.webpurify.com/blog/internet-safety-for-kids/

[^44]: https://easternpeak.com/blog/ai-in-education-personalizing-learning-experiences/

[^45]: https://ctlt.ubc.ca/2024/01/25/edubytes-collaborative-learning/

[^46]: https://www.littlelit.ai/post/parents-beware-is-deepseek-ai-safe-for-kids

[^47]: https://geniusee.com/single-blog/growing-trend-of-personalized-learning-education-technology

[^48]: https://teaching.cornell.edu/teaching-resources/active-collaborative-learning/collaborative-learning

[^49]: https://www.jdpglobal.com/new-laws-demand-child-safety-online-is-ai-the-ultimate-moderator/

[^50]: https://onlinedegrees.sandiego.edu/artificial-intelligence-education/

[^51]: https://www.facultyfocus.com/articles/faculty-development/using-collaborative-learning-to-elevate-students-educational-experiences/

[^52]: https://naavik.co/deep-dives/deep-dives-new-horizons-in-gamification/

[^53]: https://www.raspberrypi.org

[^54]: https://www.joonapp.io/post/habit-tracking-for-kids

[^55]: https://forums.raspberrypi.com/viewtopic.php?t=158899

[^56]: https://naavik.co/digest/new-horizons-gamification/

[^57]: https://pidora.ca/raspberry-pi-makes-digital-literacy-fun-and-actually-works/

[^58]: https://ncert.nic.in/pdf/NCF_for_Foundational_Stage_20_October_2022.pdf

Commit message:

feat: Update app name and branding to "Lit-eracy"
- Changed app name from "AI Literacy App" to "Lit-eracy" across various files including constants, main app title, and web index.
- Added new font assets: ComicNeue and Fredoka families.
- Updated dependency injection for use cases to specify repository types.
- Removed outdated login and registration pages, replacing them with new implementations.
- Enhanced splash page to reflect new branding.
- Adjusted pubspec.yaml to include new font paths and assets.
- Updated widget tests to reflect changes in the login page path.

Functional Requirements Document.md, after:

<img src="https://r2cdn.perplexity.ai/pplx-full-logo-primary-dark%402x.png" class="logo" width="120"/>

# Functional Requirements Document for Lit-eracy

## Executive Summary

This comprehensive Functional Requirements Document outlines the development of a **habit-forming Lit-eracylication** for children aged 3-14 in developing regions, with a specific proof-of-concept targeting India/CBSE curriculum standards. The application leverages local Gemma AI to create personalized, engaging, and culturally relevant learning experiences through an offline-first architecture that ensures accessibility in regions with limited connectivity.[^1]

## Project Overview

### 1.1 Project Vision

To create a **highly engaging, offline-first literacy application** that functions as a comprehensive **"play-and-learn" ecosystem**, leveraging local Gemma AI to deliver continuous, personalized, and deeply motivating learning journeys that encourage daily use and foster genuine love for reading.[^1]

### 1.2 Target Demographics

- **Primary Users**: Children aged 3-14 (Pre-Primary to Grade 8)
- **Geographic Focus**: Developing regions (POC: India/CBSE)
- **Secondary Users**: Parents, teachers, and educational administrators
- **Curriculum Alignment**: CBSE educational standards with multi-grade support[^2][^3]


## Core System Architecture

### 2.1 Offline-First Infrastructure

The system implements a robust offline-first architecture ensuring **100% core functionality without internet connectivity**.[^4][^5] This approach addresses the critical challenge of limited connectivity in developing regions while maintaining high-performance learning experiences.

**Technical Implementation**:

- **Local Data Storage**: SQLite database for persistent data storage
- **AI Processing**: Local Gemma AI integration for content generation
- **Synchronization**: Intelligent sync when connectivity available
- **Raspberry Pi Server**: Classroom-based local server for collaborative features[^6][^7]


### 2.2 AI-Powered Personalization Engine

The application integrates **local Gemma AI** to power deep personalization that fuels engagement through:[^1][^8][^9]

- **Dynamic Challenge Generation**: AI creates personalized challenges based on identified strengths and weaknesses
- **Adaptive Content Delivery**: Real-time adjustment of difficulty and pacing
- **Narrative Personalization**: Integration of child's name, preferences, and cultural context into generated stories
- **Predictive Learning Analytics**: AI-driven insights for optimal learning path recommendations


## Detailed Functional Requirements

### 3.1 Core Gamification and Engagement System

| Requirement ID | Description | Priority | Acceptance Criteria |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| FR-001 | **Core Gameplay Loop Implementation** | High | System shall implement 30-second action-reward cycles: complete task → earn currency → unlock content → receive visual/audio feedback[^1][^10] |
| FR-002 | **Virtual Currency Economy** | High | System shall manage "Knowledge Gems," "Word Coins," or "Imagination Sparks" tied directly to learning achievements with balanced earning/spending mechanics[^1] |
| FR-003 | **SAP Framework Integration** | High | System shall implement Status (badges, certificates), Access (unlocked content, worlds), and Power (special abilities, tools) reward systems[^1] |
| FR-004 | **Narrative World-Building** | Medium | System shall create emotional investment through compelling storylines where child feels like hero of their learning journey[^1] |
| FR-005 | **Appointment Mechanics** | Medium | System shall implement daily return incentives including streaks, daily quests, login bonuses, and timed unlocks[^1] |

### 3.2 AI-Enhanced Learning Features

| Requirement ID | Description | Priority | Acceptance Criteria |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| FR-006 | **Gemma AI Character Integration** | High | AI shall be personified as beloved companion character (Oracle of Knowledge, Story Spinner, or Robot Sidekick) providing personalized interactions[^1] |
| FR-007 | **AI-Generated Story Creation** | High | System shall generate personalized storybooks using earned "Story Seeds" planted in virtual garden, incorporating child's preferences and cultural context[^1] |
| FR-008 | **Adaptive Learning Pathways** | High | AI shall continuously adjust content difficulty, pacing, and learning paths based on real-time performance analysis[^8][^11] |
| FR-009 | **Cultural Customization Engine** | Medium | System shall incorporate local festivals, folklore, animals, and culturally relevant themes in content generation[^1][^3] |
| FR-010 | **Predictive Intervention System** | Medium | AI shall identify at-risk learning patterns and proactively suggest interventions or additional support[^12][^9] |

### 3.3 Multi-Grade Curriculum Support

| Requirement ID | Description | Priority | Acceptance Criteria |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| FR-011 | **CBSE Standards Alignment** | High | System shall align with CBSE learning outcomes, cognitive levels, and curriculum frameworks for Pre-Primary through Grade 8[^2][^13] |
| FR-012 | **Multi-Grade Classroom Support** | High | System shall support simultaneous use by students across different grade levels with individualized content delivery[^14] |
| FR-013 | **Foundational Literacy Focus** | High | System shall prioritize foundational literacy and numeracy as mandated by NEP 2020 for ages 3-8[^15] |
| FR-014 | **Progressive Skill Development** | Medium | System shall track and develop 21st-century skills including collaboration, communication, creativity, and critical thinking[^2][^13] |
| FR-015 | **Competency-Based Assessment** | Medium | System shall implement competency-based evaluation aligned with CBSE learning standards framework[^13] |

### 3.4 Collaborative Learning and Social Features

| Requirement ID | Description | Priority | Acceptance Criteria |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| FR-016 | **Class-Based Collaborative Goals** | High | Entire classes shall work toward collective objectives like building virtual library or completing Reading Quests on local server[^1][^16] |
| FR-017 | **Peer Tutoring System** | Medium | Advanced students shall create and share AI-vetted quizzes and learning materials for peers[^1] |
| FR-018 | **Family Engagement Platform** | High | System shall enable family members to participate in learning sessions and earn coaching badges[^1][^17] |
| FR-019 | **Offline Collaborative Infrastructure** | High | Raspberry Pi classroom server shall enable collaborative features without internet dependency[^6][^7][^18] |
| FR-020 | **Cultural Community Building** | Medium | System shall foster positive social interaction through culturally appropriate collaborative activities[^1] |

### 3.5 Content Safety and Moderation

| Requirement ID | Description | Priority | Acceptance Criteria |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| FR-021 | **AI Content Safety Filter** | Critical | All AI-generated content must pass automated safety filters before delivery to children[^19][^20][^21] |
| FR-022 | **Age-Appropriate Content Validation** | Critical | System shall ensure all content meets age-appropriateness standards for target demographics[^19] |
| FR-023 | **Cultural Sensitivity Screening** | High | Content generation shall incorporate cultural sensitivity filters for diverse Indian regional contexts[^1] |
| FR-024 | **Real-Time Content Monitoring** | High | System shall continuously monitor and analyze content for inappropriate material using AI moderation[^20][^21] |
| FR-025 | **Parental Control Interface** | Medium | Parents shall access content oversight tools and safety reporting mechanisms[^19] |

### 3.6 Teacher and Parent Dashboard Systems

| Requirement ID | Description | Priority | Acceptance Criteria |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| FR-026 | **Comprehensive Analytics Dashboard** | High | Teachers shall access individual and class-wide performance metrics, curriculum alignment reports, and progress tracking[^22][^12] |
| FR-027 | **Gamified Educator Features** | Medium | Teachers shall earn coaching badges and unlock classroom resources through student achievements[^1] |
| FR-028 | **Parent Progress Journey** | High | Parents shall view child's learning journey with visual progress indicators showing progression through themed worlds (e.g., "Vowel Valley to Forest of Sentences")[^1] |
| FR-029 | **Real-Time Intervention Alerts** | High | System shall provide immediate notifications when students require additional support or intervention[^12][^9] |
| FR-030 | **Collaborative Teacher Network** | Medium | Platform shall enable teachers to share resources, strategies, and custom content[^22] |

### 3.7 Long-Term Progression and Retention Systems

| Requirement ID | Description | Priority | Acceptance Criteria |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| FR-031 | **Multi-Year Evolution Framework** | High | Learning environment shall evolve as children progress: simple garden at age 6 → complex ecosystem management at age 12[^1] |
| FR-032 | **Mastery and New Game+ Systems** | Medium | Completed grade levels shall unlock advanced challenges and teaching modes for mastered topics[^1] |
| FR-033 | **Elder Game Features** | Low | Advanced students shall access virtual teaching roles to reinforce learning through peer instruction[^1] |
| FR-034 | **Habit Formation Mechanics** | High | System shall implement psychological principles for habit formation including variable rewards, progress streaks, and appointment mechanics[^23][^17][^24] |
| FR-035 | **Burnout Prevention System** | Medium | System shall vary activity types and implement session pacing to prevent learning fatigue[^1] |

### 3.8 Technical Infrastructure Requirements

| Requirement ID | Description | Priority | Acceptance Criteria |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| FR-036 | **Local AI Processing Optimization** | High | Gemma AI integration shall complete content generation within 5 seconds for simple requests on minimum hardware specifications[^1] |
| FR-037 | **Cross-Platform Compatibility** | High | Primary Android platform with secondary iOS support, optimized for devices common in developing regions[^1] |
| FR-038 | **Raspberry Pi Server Integration** | High | Seamless integration with classroom-based Raspberry Pi servers for collaborative features and content management[^6][^7][^25] |
| FR-039 | **Data Synchronization Protocol** | High | Intelligent sync of progress, collaborative features, and content updates when connectivity becomes available[^4][^26] |
| FR-040 | **Performance Optimization** | High | Core interactions must complete within 2 seconds; system must function on minimum 2GB RAM devices[^1] |

### 3.9 Assessment and Progress Tracking

| Requirement ID | Description | Priority | Acceptance Criteria |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| FR-041 | **Formative Assessment Integration** | High | Continuous evaluation woven naturally throughout learning process rather than separate testing[^22][^13] |
| FR-042 | **Adaptive Difficulty Scaling** | High | Real-time adjustment of challenge difficulty based on performance to maintain optimal learning zone[^8][^9] |
| FR-043 | **Learning Analytics Engine** | High | Comprehensive tracking of learning patterns, strengths, weaknesses, and progress velocity[^12][^9] |
| FR-044 | **Competency Mapping System** | Medium | Alignment of student progress with CBSE learning standards and competency frameworks[^2][^13] |
| FR-045 | **Portfolio and Achievement System** | Medium | Digital portfolio creation showcasing learning journey, achievements, and created content[^22] |

## Quality Assurance and Compliance

### 4.1 Educational Standards Compliance

- **CBSE Curriculum Alignment**: Full compliance with CBSE secondary school curriculum frameworks[^2]
- **NEP 2020 Integration**: Adherence to National Education Policy 2020 guidelines for foundational literacy[^15]
- **Learning Outcomes Mapping**: Precise alignment with NCERT learning outcomes and indicators[^13]


### 4.2 Child Safety and Privacy

- **Data Protection**: Compliance with child privacy regulations and secure data handling[^19]
- **Content Moderation**: Multi-layered AI-powered content safety systems[^20][^21]
- **Age-Appropriate Design**: Interface and content suitable for 3-14 age range with developmental considerations[^19]


### 4.3 Cultural and Regional Adaptation

- **Multilingual Support**: Integration with CBSE's bilingual instruction approach (Hindi/English)[^3]
- **Cultural Sensitivity**: Incorporation of local festivals, folklore, and regional themes[^1]
- **Community Values**: Alignment with communal classroom settings and collaborative learning preferences[^1]


## Technical Constraints and Dependencies

### 4.4 Hardware Requirements

- **Minimum Specifications**: 2GB RAM, ARM processor compatibility for Gemma AI
- **Optimal Performance**: Support for older devices common in developing regions
- **Server Infrastructure**: Raspberry Pi 4-based classroom servers with UPS support[^6][^18]


### 4.5 Network and Connectivity

- **Offline-First Design**: 100% core functionality without internet connectivity[^4][^5]
- **Intelligent Synchronization**: Opportunistic sync when connectivity available
- **Bandwidth Optimization**: Minimal data usage for updates and collaborative features

This comprehensive Functional Requirements Document provides a detailed blueprint for developing an Lit-eracylication that addresses the unique needs of children in developing regions while leveraging cutting-edge AI technology to create engaging, personalized, and culturally appropriate learning experiences. The requirements ensure the application will be technically feasible, educationally effective, and socially responsible while maintaining the highest standards of child safety and educational quality.

<div style="text-align: center">⁂</div>

[^1]: literacy-prompt.txt

[^2]: https://cbseacademic.nic.in/web_material/CurriculumMain25/Sec/Curriculum_Sec_2024-25.pdf

[^3]: https://earthloreacademy.com/understanding-the-cbse-curriculum-a-comprehensive-overview/

[^4]: https://developer.android.com/topic/architecture/data-layer/offline-first

[^5]: https://www.couchbase.com/blog/offline-first-more-reliable-mobile-apps/

[^6]: https://www.raspberrypi.org/app/uploads/2018/08/Raspberry-Pi-Computers-in-Schools-2018.pdf

[^7]: https://opensource.com/article/18/3/computer-lab-school-raspberry-pi

[^8]: https://elearningindustry.com/ai-in-education-personalized-learning-platforms

[^9]: https://claned.com/the-role-of-ai-in-personalized-learning/

[^10]: https://riseapps.co/gamification-in-learning-apps/

[^11]: https://elearning.adobe.com/2024/11/create-a-next-level-education-app-with-ai-driven-personalization/

[^12]: https://infostride.com/create-an-educational-app/

[^13]: https://cbseacademic.nic.in/cbe/documents/Learning_Standards_English.pdf

[^14]: https://www.edusys.co/blog/what-are-multi-grad-classroom-advantages-disadvantages

[^15]: https://globalindianschool.org/sg/blog-detail/exploring-cbses-education-policy-and-latest-curriculum-framework/

[^16]: https://isit.arts.ubc.ca/news/strategies-for-collaborative-learning/

[^17]: https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC11896562/

[^18]: https://community.nethserver.org/t/raspberry-pi-education-server/18646

[^19]: https://thehyperstack.com/blog/utilizing-ai-in-education-to-prevent-child-abuse-safeguarding-students-in-the-digital-era/

[^20]: https://www.forbes.com/sites/neilsahota/2024/07/20/ai-shields-kids-by-revolutionizing-child-safety-and-online-protection/

[^21]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/content-safety/overview

[^22]: https://www.idreameducation.org/blog/learning-apps-for-schools-features/

[^23]: https://www.trendhunter.com/amp/trends/habitforming-apps

[^24]: https://www.mdpi.com/2078-2489/16/7/606

[^25]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EFDmZX08MXc

[^26]: https://www.mendix.com/evaluation-guide/app-lifecycle/develop/ux-multi-channel-apps/offline-first-apps/

[^27]: https://spinify.com/blog/how-ai-can-tailor-gamification-to-individual-learning-styles/

[^28]: https://pure.royalholloway.ac.uk/files/59911145/1570995191_final.pdf

[^29]: https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/02568543.2024.2421974

[^30]: https://taylorinstitute.ucalgary.ca/resources/collaborative-activities-for-online-learning

[^31]: https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC9252556/

[^32]: https://www.cbse.gov.in/cbsenew/documents/Handbook for Teachers.pdf

[^33]: https://think-it.io/insights/offline-apps

[^34]: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2666920X21000266

[^35]: https://edzym.com/blog/what-is-the-cbse-curriculum/

[^36]: https://www.debutinfotech.com/blog/a-guide-to-offline-app-architecture

[^37]: https://www.disco.co/blog/ai-tools-for-gamified-learning-2025

[^38]: https://cbseacademic.nic.in/sqaa/doc/handbook.pdf

[^39]: https://redstaglabs.com/blogs/an-easy-guide-to-building-offline-first-mobile-apps/

[^40]: https://the-learning-agency.com/the-cutting-ed/article/gamified-ai-tools-for-literacy-development/

[^41]: https://cbseit.in/cbse/2022/ET/assets1/pdf/NCF_SE.pdf

[^42]: https://www.classin.com/online-merge-offline-learning-strategies/

[^43]: https://www.webpurify.com/blog/internet-safety-for-kids/

[^44]: https://easternpeak.com/blog/ai-in-education-personalizing-learning-experiences/

[^45]: https://ctlt.ubc.ca/2024/01/25/edubytes-collaborative-learning/

[^46]: https://www.littlelit.ai/post/parents-beware-is-deepseek-ai-safe-for-kids

[^47]: https://geniusee.com/single-blog/growing-trend-of-personalized-learning-education-technology

[^48]: https://teaching.cornell.edu/teaching-resources/active-collaborative-learning/collaborative-learning

[^49]: https://www.jdpglobal.com/new-laws-demand-child-safety-online-is-ai-the-ultimate-moderator/

[^50]: https://onlinedegrees.sandiego.edu/artificial-intelligence-education/

[^51]: https://www.facultyfocus.com/articles/faculty-development/using-collaborative-learning-to-elevate-students-educational-experiences/

[^52]: https://naavik.co/deep-dives/deep-dives-new-horizons-in-gamification/

[^53]: https://www.raspberrypi.org

[^54]: https://www.joonapp.io/post/habit-tracking-for-kids

[^55]: https://forums.raspberrypi.com/viewtopic.php?t=158899

[^56]: https://naavik.co/digest/new-horizons-gamification/

[^57]: https://pidora.ca/raspberry-pi-makes-digital-literacy-fun-and-actually-works/

[^58]: https://ncert.nic.in/pdf/NCF_for_Foundational_Stage_20_October_2022.pdf
